# Taxonomy-Lineage-from-Modules

The results are the taxonomy lineage of the organism whose scientific name was entered to the command line.  If there are multiple possible lineages (like Gorilla for example), then all of the possible lineages will be in the output.  

I used the model.py, load_taxa.py, load_names.py, and fix_taxa.py files from Lecture 25.  The part of the program that actually finds the lineages is the Taxonomy.py file.  This file contains the find_lineage(organism_name) function.  It includes init() which initialized the database connection by calling the init function from model.py.  All of the Name entries matching the organism name are then found.  If no matching name entry is found, then a print statement alerts the user and exits the function.  If matching name entries are found, then the program gets the taxonomy for each entry through the Taxonomy foreign key linked to each name.  This information is then printed.  A list is then created to store the lineage.  Starting from the current taxonomy, the while look continues to add each taxon's rank, scientific name, and TaxID to the lineage list until a taxon with no parent is reached.  This is the root.  After the while loop, the program appends the root taxon to the lineage and prints the lineage in reverse order from root to leaf.  The last two lines get the organism from the command line and run that organism through the function to get its taxonomic lineage.

The model.py file establishes a connection with the database and checks if the database should be reinitialized.  If new = True, the database is reset.  Besides the taxid, scientific_name, rank, and parent, I added children and names to the Taxonomy class to include the children and associated names of the organism.

The other files, load_taxa.py, load_names.py, and fix_taxa.py: load the taxonomic data to the Taxonomy table, processes the taxonomic IDs and ranks and creates corresponding entries in the database; load organism names in the Name table and associates each name with a Taxonomy entry; updates the parent relationships with the Taxonomy table, ensuring each taxon points to its correct parent in the hierarchical taxonomy.
